# effectiveness_of_marketing_campaign
## Introduction
### company overview
The train is the retail dataset of a superstore that offers a wide category of products such as furniture, technology, and office supplies to customers.
### Objective
The project is conducted to analyze the effectiveness of marketing campaigns from selected data and give suggestions. Building the store sale summary dashboard and product performance summary dashboard deliver outcomes of the marketing campaigns by three terms: sale trend, customer preferences, and product sales by category.

## Project Analysis
**Store revenue summary dashboard**
- Fundamental statistic metrics: total revenue and total order values give overview outcomes of marketing and sale of the store in the period of 4 years. 
- Specific statistics: the average revenue per order, the average order sold per customer, and the average item sold per order values are vital to analyzing the effectiveness of promotion campaigns, customer purchase behavior, and customer loyalty. 
- Monthly revenue tables: the tables deliver customer purchasing trends for a short-term period. Likewise, it also shows the impact of marketing campaigns on sales during seasons of the last year
- Yearly revenue tables: they provide a long-term evaluation of marketing strategy performance. To be more specific, it involves marketing initiatives, product positioning, or shifts in customer behavior. 
- Regional revenue distribution map: the map shows total revenue changes by broad geographical areas like east, west, south, and north. In addition, it can be useful to analyze the effectiveness of marketing strategies by wide regions.
- State-specific revenue distribution map: the map delivers more sophisticated total sale data by smaller areas. It is crucial to indicate where the marketing strategy is weak and strong. Also, they are valuable for analyzing the change in total sales from regional areas to states.
- Pie chart: it shows a quick visualization of revenue by customer segments in total. This is at great avail to highlight biggest and smallest customer range targets.
- Bar chart: the bar chart offers data on segment growth and decline year to year, which is essential for trend analysis. Besides that, it also indicates how well marketing targeting methods have been toward each customer group over the years.
**Product performance summary dashboard**
- Yearly product category sales bar chart and text table: they visualize annual sales trends by category, shifts in consumer preference, and market change. Sophisticatedly, both of them provide sales growth and decline of each category over 4 years, pointing to the bestseller and worst product. As a result, these insights are involved in the success of marketing targeting as well as research and development campaigns.
- Total sales share by product category pie chart: the chart gives an overview visualization of sales distribution by product categories over four years. It underlines the top and bottom category by revenue, which is the principal for addressing marketing focus and product development projects. 
- Yearly revenue share by product category bar chart: the bar chart breaks out the percentage of product revenues each year. It is useful to have a deeper understanding of increasing or decreasing market needs for each category. In other words, this shows how adaptable the marketing and product strategies are toward market mainstream and customer preferences. 

## Executive Summary
### Conclusion
**Sale trend**:
As can be seen, 2,261,537 dollars was reported as the total revenue of the superstore over 4 years along with 9800 orders correspondingly, in which average revenue per order was calculated as 459.48 dollars per order. Otherwise, when it comes to yearly revenue, the total revenue witnessed a slight fluctuation from 2015 to 2018. It started at approximately 480,000 dollars per year in 2015 then steadily dropped to 459,436 dollars in 2016, and significantly increased to nearly 600,000 dollars and 722,000 dollars in 2017 and 2018 respectively. Most notably, monthly revenue saw the most striking fluctuation. In the February-March period, the percentage growth of monthly revenue reached 52,77 percent with 74,749 dollars per month, which significantly diminished to -49,36 percent with an upper 37,000 dollars per month in March-April. Similarly, the percentage growth of monthly revenue was 34,35 percent in October-November period, while the figure for November-December period was -35 percent. 

**Customer preferences:**
Given the store revenue summary dashboard, each customer would averagely purchase 6 orders from 2015 to 2018 of which 2 items would be sold per order. On top of total revenue broken down by customer segment was the consumer segment with 1,148,061 dollars when compared to closely 688,000 dollars of the corporate segment and 425,000 dollars of the home office segment. Similarly, the consumer segment maintained a stable uptrend of yearly revenue, whereas the corporate and home offices experienced an up and down trend over the years. Especially, despite the fact that the West accounted for the biggest amount of revenue by region with 710,220 dollars, the disparity of total revenue by state in the West was huge. While, total revenue from customers in California, Washington, and Colorado was 446,306 dollars, 135,207 dollars, and 31,842 dollars, the total revenue from people from the rest of the states in the west was around 920 dollars to 17,000 dollars. The same could be said for the Central region. Contrastly, the total revenue from customers in the east region was considered the second largest, but the disparity of total revenue by state there was smaller. Particularly, when customers would tend to purchase products from the superstore in states like New York, Pennsylvania, and Ohio with sales from 75,000 dollars to 300,000 dollars, the figure for eight remaining states like Vermont, and New Jersey… was 8,000 dollars to 30.000 dollars. Most surprisingly, despite being the least total revenue contributor, the south region turned out to have the smallest disparity of sales by state. To be more specific, when sales from customers in five states with the largest revenue in the south region was around 50,000 to 90,000 dollars, the five remaining states contributed 10,000 dollars to 30,000 dollars per state. 

**Product sales by category:**
Generally, revenue share by each category remained at 30 percent year by year. Particularly, the total revenue of office supplies products was seen as the smallest with 705,422 dollars and 32,2 percent of the total, experiencing an up and down trend from -11 percent in 2015-2016 to 31 percent in 2017-2018. In the same way, notwithstanding technology contributed the biggest revenue with 827,456 dollars and 36,59 percent of the total, it witnessed a fluctuating tendency from nearly -7 percent in 2015- 2016 to 21,36 percent in 2017-2018. Most strikingly, furniture, despite being the second largest sale category with 728,659 dollars and 32,22 percent of the total, showed the most stable growth of revenue with 4,84 percent from 2015-2016, and 8,43 percent from 2017-2018.

### Suggestions for Further Improvement and Business Outcomes
1. **Revenue fluctuation improvement**
- *Suggestion:* Conducting a detailed analysis of the biggest fluctuation periods like 2016-2017, March- April, and November- December to figure out the underlying reasons for these significant. Then, use these key insights to address and develop marketing campaigns like targeting, promotion, advertising, distributing, pricing, or product programs. 
- *Business outcomes:* eliminating the up-and-down on revenue yearly or monthly, maintaining stable cash flow into and out of a business for business development and reinvestment. Otherwise, this is at great avail to reduce cost for inventory management.
2. **Customer Segmentation and Personalization**
- *Suggestion:* Creating marketing research and personalizing marketing of the consumer segment which shows the highest revenue share by segment and the most stable growth. Sophisticatedly, customer behavior, personalized emails, targeted ads, and customized product recommendations should be thoroughly analyzed. Additionally, exploring reasons for the disparity in yearly revenue of corporator and home office segments to promptly tailor marketing campaigns to these segments. 
- *Business outcome:* customer retention and volume of targeted customers will be enhanced, which contribute to increasing revenue, profits, and brand awareness. 
3. **Regional Market Analysis**
- *Suggestions:* more localized marketing activities should be launched in regions with vast revenue disparity across states like west and central regions. Boosting business funds into campaigns in regions with less revenue disparity across states like east and south regions
- *Business outcomes:* The cost of marketing will be reduced once the localized marketing activities work well. Besides that, the cost of operation and logistics will be optimized. 
4. **Product Category Focus**
- *Suggestion:* product development, innovative marketing, market Analysis, and risk management are considered as approaches toward categories with high revenue and high variability like technology and office supplies categories. In contrast, steady and reliable marketing strategies, and enhancing customer engagement are suitable directions for categories with high state variability. 
- *Business outcomes:* market share increase and stabilized Sales would be fruitful results of product development, innovative marketing, market Analysis, and risk management. On the other hand, Sustained growth, increased customer Loyalty, and operational efficiency are outcomes of steady and reliable marketing strategies and enhancing customer engagement.
